If the new instance spins up successfully (for web services, you can help verify this by setting up health checks), Render updates your current deployed commit accordingly.

For web services and private services, Render also updates its networking configuration so that your new instance begins receiving all incoming traffic:
Render
load balancer

Original instance
(v1)

New instance
(v2)

After 60 seconds, Render sends a SIGTERM signal to your app's process on the original instance.

This signals your app to perform a graceful shutdown.
If your app's process doesn't exit within its specified shutdown delay (default 30 seconds), Render sends a SIGKILL signal to force the process to terminate.

You can extend your service's shutdown delay. See details.

Render
load balancer

Original instance
(v1)

New instance
(v2)

For web services with edge caching enabled, Render purges all of the service's cache entries.

This helps ensure that clients receive up-to-date content. See details.
The zero-downtime deploy is complete.

For services that are scaled to multiple instances, Render performs steps 2-5 for one instance at a time. If any new instance fails to become healthy during this process, Render cancels the entire deploy and reverts to instances running the previous version of your service.

Graceful shutdown
As part of deploying your service to a new instance, Render triggers a shutdown of the current instance by sending your application a SIGTERM signal. Your application should define logic to perform a graceful shutdown in response to this signal.

Common shutdown actions include:

Responding to remaining in-flight HTTP requests
Completing in-progress worker tasks (or marking them as failed so they're retried by other workers)
Terminating outbound connections to external services
Exiting with a zero status after other cleanup actions are complete
If your service is still running after its configured shutdown delay (default 30 seconds), Render sends your application a SIGKILL signal. This terminates the application immediately with a non-zero status.

Setting a shutdown delay
If your service needs more than 30 seconds to complete a graceful shutdown, you can specify a longer shutdown delay (up to a maximum of 300 seconds) in one of the following ways:

Call the Render API's Update service endpoint and set the maxShutdownDelaySeconds field to the desired value.
Add the maxShutdownDelaySeconds field to your service's associated render.yaml configuration.
Use this method if you manage your service with a Blueprint.

Copy page

Deploying on Render
Automatic deploys
Configuring auto-deploys
Skipping an auto-deploy
Manual deploys
Deploy steps
Build command
Pre-deploy command
Start command
Managing deploys
Handling overlapping deploys
Canceling a deploy
Restarting a service
Rolling back a deploy
Deployment concepts
Ephemeral filesystem
Zero-downtime deploys
Graceful shutdown
Did this page help?
Pricing
Blog
Security
Customers
Careers
